In this dataset, three distinct samples of sunflower meal (SFM) were obtained, representing different crude protein levels. For each SFM sample, 70 photos were taken at a size of 6,000x8,000 pixels using a 48-megapixel camera. The photos were taken from different angles under controlled lighting conditions to ensure consistent image quality and minimize variations. The samples were placed on a uniform white background to facilitate easy segmentation and feature extraction from the images. Care was taken to maintain a consistent distance and angle between the camera and the samples during image acquisition. After acquiring the photographs of the sunflower meal samples, several image processing steps were performed to extract numerical features suitable for ML analysis. Initially, the largest square area is selected from the raw images captured by the camera, ensuring only the object of interest (the sunflower meal in the context of this study) is visible while excluding the white background. After positioning this square on the photo, a 224x224 pixel window is established starting from the top-left corner of the square, and the image within this window is recorded. Subsequently, three different variants are produced by rotating the original image 90 degrees clockwise. By shifting this window within the 224x224 pixel marked area, data is generated to serve as input for classification models. Utilizing this method, a total of 5,100 images were generated, with 1,700 images per class, from 210 raw photographs.
